it's an age-old pursuit of all parents
getting their kids to eat their
vegetables but getting them to eat
cookies or ice cream is relatively easy
and that's because our brains prefer
sweetness now there's a new technology
called optogenetics which may be able to
trick our taste buds for instance
preferring vegetables or sweets we're
gonna try this today using fruit flies
the reason why we experiment with fruit
flies is they have a small enough
nervous system that gives us a fighting
chance to really understand what's going
on and believe it or not their taste
buds are very similar to ours but before
we try to manipulate their taste
preferences we need to sort of establish
what is the baseline of a fruit fly what
does it prefer we call this a control
experimental and Spencer's been hard at
work doing this okay Spencer let's do
our first experiment we want to test to
see if fruit flies prefer bananas or
broccoli so what do we need to do that
experiment so we need the fly pad which
is basically an iPad for flies it
actually measures the touch you put a
fly in each one of these chambers yeah
in each chamber also gonna offer them
banana and broccoli to see which one
they prefer now in order to count the
number of times that the fruit fly eats
a banana versus the broccoli these
chambers have been outfitted with a
small electrode that sends data to a
computer and so what were your findings
on banana versus broccoli I found that
the flies visited banana the most so
even though both were there just like
most kids they choose not to eat the
broccoli and they go switch to something
sweeter exactly now quick background on
how taste works our taste buds are made
up of specialized neurons called taste
receptors whenever we eat something that
triggers a particular taste those taste
neurons will fire a signal to the brain
now this allows our brain to know what's
sweet and what's bitter so when a fruit
fly eats a banana it's sweet taste
neuron to a fire but when it eats
broccoli those same neurons stay pretty
quiet but what if we could force those
sweet tasting neurons to fire every time
the fruit fly eats broccoli we may be
able to get the fruit fly too like
broccoli as much as he likes banana
enter opto genetics this is the
revolutionary new tool that's taking
neuroscience by storm and in this case
opto means light and genetic refers to
the fact that these fruit flies have
been modified to contain a special gene
that makes only certain neurons respond
to light in our case we've added a
special gene for the sweet
receptors now here's the fun part
optogenetics means that we can control
these special neurons whenever they're
exposed to a bright colored light
causing them to send messages to the
brain in this experiment we're gonna
have these modified fruit flies choose
between banana and brach vegan only this
time every time the fruit fly eats the
broccoli we're gonna trigger a big
bright red light and when the channels
see that red light they're gonna open up
they're gonna cause that neuron to fire
and the sweet taste message will be sent
to the brain so how do you get the Flies
out
so we're gonna be using a mouth
aspirator so it's just two straws put
together just a fancy name for a straw
alright basically so you're just suck
those out yep
have you ever sucked up a fly before mmm
once or twice yeah here we go you got
all four of them okay perfect so you
turn on your op dose dimmers here so you
got to park the lights right on top of
the chambers so now we sit here and we
wait for them to to eat broccoli and
then the light fires they're gonna think
it's tasting something sweet come on
oh he's getting closer come on it tastes
good now it's about to oh yeah alright
alright so now we see that some of these
flies are switching over from from the
banana to the broccoli exactly and so
every time this this light goes off that
means that the neurons there think
they're tasting something sweet yeah
this guy's really going after ya so we
saw that we were able to rescue broccoli
and make it just as appealing as banana
to our fruit flies and were able to
replicate these same results in all of
our experiments so the question is can
we do the same thing in humans well that
depends on a number of items first do
optogenetic tools even work in humans
and that looks like the answer is yes
and in fact clinical trials are already
being planned that will treat chronic
pain blindness using optogenetics and
the next question is can we easily
trigger a light source so that every
time we eat vegetables that it will go
off for that I'm afraid at least at this
time the answer is still no but today we
get to witness just a taste of
optogenetics and its amazing potential